.TH CLIPMENU.CONF 5
.SH NAME
clipmenu.conf \- configuration file for clipmenu applications
.SH DESCRIPTION
clipmenu.conf defines the runtime settings for clipmenu applications (including
clipmenu itself, clipmenud, clipctl, clipdel, clipdelmenu, and clipserve).
.SH FORMAT
Each non-comment line in clipmenu.conf consists of a key followed by one or
more whitespace-separated values. Blank lines and lines starting with '#' are
ignored.
.PP
For example:
.EX
max_clips 1000
selections clipboard primary
.EE
.SH CONFIGURATION OPTIONS
.TP
.B max_clips
Specifies the maximum number of clipboard entries to retain in the clip store.
Default: 1000.
.TP
.B max_clips_batch
Provides a buffer above max_clips; when the number of entries exceeds
(max_clips + max_clips_batch), the clip store is trimmed back to max_clips
entries. Default: 100.
.TP
.B oneshot
If set to 1, clipmenud processes clipboard selections only once before exiting.
Default: 0.
.TP
.B deduplicate
If set to 1, clipmenud keeps only the newest copy of duplicate clips instead of
storing every duplicate entry. Default: 0.
.TP
.B own_clipboard
Determines whether clipmenud should claim ownership of the X11 clipboard. Works
together with own_selections. Default: 0.
.TP
.B own_selections
Specifies which X11 selections (e.g., "clipboard" or "primary") clipmenud
should actively own when
.B own_clipboard
is enabled. When a clip from one of these selections is stored, clipmenud uses
clipserve to own those selections. This does not affect which selections are
monitored; use
.B selections
for that. Default: "clipboard".
If this is set to an empty value, it is treated as if
.B own_clipboard
was disabled.
.TP
.B selections
Lists the X11 selections to monitor for changes. Valid values include
"clipboard", "primary", and "secondary". Default: "clipboard primary".
.TP
.B ignore_window
Defines a regular expression matching window titles to exclude from clipboard
monitoring. Unset by default.
.TP
.B launcher
Specifies the launcher command to use with clipmenu. Alternative choices
include rofi's dmenu mode or a custom command. Default: "dmenu".
.TP
.B launcher_pass_dmenu_args
When enabled, clipmenu and clipdelmenu add dmenu-compatible defaults (such as
-p and -l) before any user-provided arguments. Default: 1.
.TP
.B touch_on_select
When an entry is selected via
.BR clipmenu (1)
it will also be moved up to the newest slot.
Default: 0.
.TP
.B partial_merge_secs
Specifies the time window in seconds during which consecutive clipboard updates
where the previous entry was a substring of the new one are merged together
instead of being stored separately. This is useful for applications that
incrementally update the clipboard (e.g. progressive text selection in
browsers). Set to 0 to disable partial merging entirely. Default: 2.
.TP
.B cm_dir
Overrides the default base directory for clipmenu runtime data. The clip store
is created at a subdirectory named clipmenu.<version>.<uid> inside this
directory. By default, it uses XDG_RUNTIME_DIR, TMPDIR, or /tmp if neither are
set. The path must be absolute. A leading ~ expands to $HOME.
.SH FILE LOCATION
Typically, clipmenu.conf is located at
.BR ~/.config/clipmenu/clipmenu.conf
.
The file location can be overridden with $CM_CONFIG, which must be an absolute
path. A leading ~ expands to $HOME. If $CM_CONFIG is unset, $XDG_CONFIG_HOME is
used (falling back to ~/.config).
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B CM_CONFIG
Absolute path (or a path beginning with ~) to the configuration file. This
takes precedence over $XDG_CONFIG_HOME.
.TP
.B XDG_CONFIG_HOME
Base directory for configuration files. If unset, ~/.config is used.
.TP
.B CM_DEBUG
If set to 1, enable debug logging.
.TP
.B Config environment variables
CM_MAX_CLIPS, CM_MAX_CLIPS_BATCH, CM_ONESHOT, CM_DEDUPLICATE, CM_OWN_CLIPBOARD,
CM_SELECTIONS, CM_OWN_SELECTIONS, CM_IGNORE_WINDOW, CM_LAUNCHER,
CM_LAUNCHER_PASS_DMENU_ARGS, and CM_DIR are environment variable equivalents for
the configuration keys of the same name. These override values from the config
file and are provided for compatibility with versions prior to 7.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR clipctl (1),
.BR clipdel (1),
.BR clipmenu (1),
.BR clipmenud (1),
.SH AUTHOR
Chris Down
.MT chris@chrisdown.name
.ME
.SH REPORTING BUGS
Please send bug reports to
.UR https://github.com/cdown/clipmenu/issues
.UE .
